# Running the programs

First of all you have to build all the projects.  I use the community version of Visual Studio 2019.  After seeing how these programs work, you can try you own data files, and, if you like, make your own Python program to run the NANO library using the NANO DLL(in the X64/lib directory). 

## To try think.exe

Look at the properties of the think project in VS, particularly Debugging.  That is where the data file is named and the rest of the command line is defined.  The program takes input data from the directory called Working in NANO and produces output there.  One example input is VeryNoisy.txt which has a huge level of noise applied as the signal gets smaller. The goal of the program is to try to deal with a variable level of noise in data. The output is in the file ExtendedTR.txt which you can examine in a spreadsheet.  In MS Excel, for the VeryNoisy.txt input data, you open the file, highlight the rightmost two columns and insert a line chart which show the noisy data input and the NANO output ( which extends the input data by one column). For the sine-cosine problem which has two inputs, you insert a scatterplot that shows how close the noisy data is fitted.

## To try Q_learning.exe

This shows NANO performing Q learning for the inverted pendulum problem. Just run the program (say inside Visual Studio "without debugging" ). It does a few iterations of Q learning then asks you for an integer number of iterations you want to do.  You can give it 100, 1000, 20000 or more. At the start 1000 iterations takes on the order of a minute or two.  As the program learns the Q function, the ALN tree grows and may end up with hundreds or thousands of leaf nodes. Then each iteration takes longer.  Each leaf node computes a flat surface defining a small part of the function surface. After the specified number of iterations, the program asks again how many more you want.  If you input 0, then that finishes the program and you can open the file qmotion.txt in the directory "Working" using a spreadsheet like Excel.  Then you highlight the leftmost column and insert a line chart which shows the angle of the pendulum over time.  The second column shows the angular velocity. Then comes the control given.  There are just three possible torque values which can be used: maximal clockwise torque (negative), maximal counter-clockwise torque and zero torque. 
